Step 5. Details of the dispute

Starting from around 2018, our combined sewage/wastewater system started to become blocked occasionally. At
this stage we did not realize that it is actually a common property (that is, for all three units A, B, C at 15 Euston
Rd) and we fixed these issues at our own expense. In May 2019 the situation worsened and our unit was subject
to severe sewage/wastewater overflow. Because of the downhill location, our unit was affected the most. I had to
quickly find the solution. Due to previous experience, I already had few local contacts and I called Warren Glynn
from Land & Marine Ltd for help. After an examination, he told me that the pipe that needs to be unblocked is a
common property (see the file 1-drain-plan-Warren.pdf) and advised me to talk to the neighbours. When I talked
to them, including the Respondent, they assured me that they will pay their shares later when the job is done.
However, when the work was completed, the Respondent refused to pay giving, as an excuse, the increase of
costs and the lack of formal "consultation". Moreover, not only she didn't pay her share, as a body corporate
secretary, she provoked, by her emails, the owners of Unit C not to pay theirs either (See copies of her email
attached).

Step 6. Why is the respondent still disputing the claim?

As far as I understood, the Respondent was giving three reasons not to pay. 1) When I talked to her first, she
accepted that the blocked pipe was common property and agreed to pay her part later. After the
invoice became ready, she said that she was "shocked by the high cost" but she never explained which particular
item of the invoice she disagreed with. 2) She accused me of a lack of "proper consultation". Firstly, as I
said, at the beginning, I did not realise that we are dealing with a common property. Secondly, when I talked to
her in person, she did not give me any email address or phone number for communication. I had to knock on
their door and ask her partner for contact details later, when our invoices became ready. 3) To my surprise, in
her claim (CIV-2021-094-000375) she even started to deny the fact that it was the common property that was
repaired. As a "Body Corporate Secretary" she should know that all three units have a common drain system
and, by the way, she should have told me that earlier, in April 2019, when the problem arose. For the
reference, I have attached a copy of the Council's drain plan for our site. There is also a very clear job description
prepared by people from Land & Marine Ltd.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Step 6.
As far as I understood, the Respondent gave (remove “was giving”) three reasons……Better tense

1. When I first talked to her (rather than “talked to her first”) she (add “said she” - or if she 
didn’t in fact say, but indicated by other means) accepted (remove “the fact”) that the pipe was 
(not “is”) common property, and (remove “she”) agreed to pay……
After the invoice (remove “became ready”) was presented for payment, she said she (remove “is”) was shocked….

2. She (remove “also blamed”)Better English: accused me of a lack of (as you have used “formal” earlier, 
either use that again, or change the former mention). I’ve slightly reworked how you’ve put this.
Then we come into some rather murkier parts: Why are you including your realisation that 
it is common property again? Would it not be better to clarify that earlier, even before you began 
to have problems or when you got the first problems fixed, you had no idea what her contact details were, 
and then go on to say that she had never given you her contact details, with the result that when 
the invoice (were there more than one?) arrived, you had to go to her unit, and ask her partner for contact details? 

3. ….in her claim (…) she even started to deny the fact (did she or didn’t she? 
It sounds strange to say “she started to deny” Did she deny that it was, in fact, 
common property that was repaired, or something belonging to you alone? Is this why you were surprised?

Because as Body Corporate Secretary she should have known all three units have a common drain system. 
When the problem first arose, before it was pointed out to you by the contractor you hired, 
she failed to tell you that. (This is maybe beside the point. The fact is that the repair was 
to common property. If it’s established that she was BCS, then of course she should have known…..
but her not knowing seems to muddy the waters a bit, and shouldn’t be your problem, imo).
For (remove “the”) reference, I attach ( remove “have attached”)…….for our site, 
(add “plus”) a (very clear) probably not necessary, as the referee will be judging 
the veracity of this job description prepared by  (remove “people from”) Land & Marine Ltd.
